

Quality Assurance :
	“Activities focused on providing confidence that quality requirements will be fulfilled.”

Quality:
	Quality assurance is about ensuring that development processes are correct and complete and the deployed product fulfills customer requirements.


Why good Quality?

	Neglecting quality assurance will impact the end user.
	Teams that fail to adequately test their product can lose time, money, and customers


Quality Attributes:
	Functionality
		 How well the application is working according to its specifications
	Availability
		Amount of time the application is available to users, fully functional
	Performance
		How quickly and accurately the application completes required functions.
	Testability
		How easily developers and testers can test the application
	Security
		Security features and requirements necessary to protect company and user data—from possible breaches or catastrophic losses.
	Usability
		How easy is the application to use
	Reliability
		 Application's capacity to continue operating under specified conditions for a certain amount of time.



Benifits of Tetsing:
	Product Quality:
		Quality of product will be better with less defects to the end user
	User Experience 
		user will have better experience with better testing in place and less bugs



Types of testing:
	Manual testing
		Peformed manually by test engineer
		Need expertise as done manually without any tools
		Disadvantages: 	Time consuming, Boring, repetitive
		Advantages: Low cost, flexibility, can test few things that'c cant be done my Automation

	Automation testing:
		Done using specific set of tools and automated scripts 
		Easy to run as most of the part is automated
		Disadvantages: Costly, too much dependency on automation tools, Need expertise and may not suit for all type sof testing
		Advantages:Savings on Longterm, ability to run tests in parallel, easily repeatable several times quickly

	Functional Testing:
		used to test if the application is meetings the client requirements with respect to the functionality
		It can be manual or Automated

	Non Functional testing:
		It concentrates on operational qualities rather than behavioural qualities.
		In simple words : It defines "How the system will do" and not "what the system will do"
		Tetsing includes the testing of : Realiablity, Usability, Performance
		Automation is best for this type of tetsing

Testing Methods:
	WhiteBox testing:	
		Testing based on an analysis of the internal structure of the component or system
	Black box testing:
		This testing is focused only on the interface and does not test the internal structure of the software.
	Grey box testing:
		It is a hybrid of white box and black box testing that requires engineers to have access to the database and design documentation
		Grey box testing provides a more user experience–centered test.
		

Test Plan : 
	This should be part of dcoumentation that a team maintains for testing. Test plan shoud include
		A project-specific impact on testing
		The scope of testing
		Quality and acceptance criteria
		The test team, test schedule, and test deliverables
	

Test Strategy : 
	While the test plan focuses on the “what” and the “when” of testing, the test strategy addresses the “how.” Test strategy should include
		How the team will organize testing
		Which testing types will be in scope to address product risks
		Which test design and execution approaches the team will use for a particular testing type
		
		

	
		
		 	
		
			